#  Home Solar Automation based on AI
## Summary 
This work is related to my "Building AI Course Project". This is an electrical energy optimization project for a typical home in India, using AI methods. Rooftop solar generation with storage battery along with recommended (or mandated) use of solar thermal water heaters and thermal solar cookers together with the use of induction based cooktops replacing coil based heaters are taken for analysis. 
## Background
In India, under Prime Minister Surya Ghar Yojana scheme, subsidies are offered for installation of rooftop solar power in residences upto 3kW capacity. For residential units, the electrical energy distribution company (DISCOM) applies a two month billing cycle. When the energy units consumed exceeds 500  (for two months), there is a steep esaclation in the pricing. Bidirectional net metering is provided. The home owner has to pay for the net energy drawn (imported energy minus the exported energy). Any excess is credited at rates substantially lower than the retail rated paid to the DISCOM. The provision of a battery (not explicitly covered in the Government scheme) helps to maximise self-consumption. In addition, continuity in power supply is ensured from unexpected DISCOM outages, load shedding and shutdowns for maintenance etc.
## How it works
The AI model predicts the solar output which is seasonal. The model avoids drawing of power from the DISCOM during peak hours (battery can supply at such times) and achieve lower slab rates by staying withing 500 unit bar and  In future DISCOM will resort to Time-of-Day (ToD) metering when it is able to provide smart energy meters for homes. At that point of time, the use of thermal heating for water and cooking will help lower the home energy demand besides the fact that for all seasons and conditons, thermal heating helps to shave of  critical portions of the home energy demand. This also preserves the battery storage, which needs to be used to mitigate the expensive peak hour pricing in the mornings and evenings. Vagaries of weather such as cloud covers, monsoon seasons and skewed angle during winter cause a reduction in solar power output which is monitored in the model. In this scenario, an  attempt is made to develop a model, which will optimise the solar power generation and usage for the home user which shall work for all seasons. Primarily the power bills are monitored and optimized.
## Data Sources and AI Methods
The AI model predicts the solar output based on weather conditions. The role of thermal heating appliances in shaving a part of the demand is factored and the total household demand is calculated and constantly compared with the solar output. Logical decisions like whether to use the DISCOM power or soalr power / stored energy in the battery is made depending on the time of the day (peak hours or non-peak hours)
## Challenges
The solar panels are to be maintained clean and tidy to get maximum output. The thermal heaters are to be used on a coninuous basis to reduce the home power demand. Battery needs to be maintained well with correct water level in case of lead-acid type battery. Periodic software checks, visual checks and environmental controls are required for Lithium-ion batteries.
## What Next
In the future, home owners can interconnect their home solar generating units forming local grid (micro-grid) which is will provie a lot more advantages to the home owners.
## Acknowledgement
I wish to thank the providers of 'Building AI, course - MinnaLearn and University of Helsenki, for this wonderful opportunity. If not for their easy-to- follow course, I would have never learnt about AI at all. I also thank GOOGLE AI and GOOGLE COLAB for helping me to make a detailed Python code from my incompelete code which was full of many errors.
